# AWS re:Invent 2022 | Day 6 - Friday, Dec. 2


## Accelerating workloads using parallelism with AWS Step Functions & Lambda


Adam Wagner -
Justin Callison


Parallel processing is a common computing approach to help solve large problems in a shorter period of time. By running the components of a problem concurrently, the total duration is greatly reduced. For example, to process 1,000 log files for one minute each, it takes over 16 hours if they are sequentially processed. When they are processed in parallel, the same task takes only one minute. Effective parallel processing requires scalable computing capacity but also adds complexity for you to orchestrate the parallel components and to produce a consistent result. In this session, learn how to leverage AWS Step Functions and AWS Lambda to achieve cloud-scale parallelism for your workloads.


Data processing has envolved 
Data processing is evolving 


People that does no code but is scentistic

The goal for general Dev


- Step Function is a serverless workflow service
- > mostrar a imagem 

Direclty compose applications from over 220 AWS services and


how they work..

Integration types to suit your needs 




Select the best workflow for the job


states allow you to make decisions, perform actions, and accelerate processing 


Processing an object


There is a challenge processing 


new stuff - introduction distributed Map




Show the Demo

NOAA Glogal Surdace 

we have bucket with a lot of csv files, with the key id is the satation and a temperature 

- How we find the highsted temperature by monthe 


create a brand new worklogow


354 GB and 55.3k of files

-> state machine
.> new workflow visual studido

go to flow .> drap map state
     called distributed map
        - distributed - new 
        - item soruce - Amazom s3
        - selected the s3 item source
        - s3 objet list 
        - enter bucker name

        pick item batching - 
        max kbs per batch 256

        runtime stettings
            currency limit - 3000

            child execution type, select Express
        
        Export locations
            pick eporxt map state results to amazon s3

            enter bucket name
            -set prefix demo

        
back to actins a drang Lambda mappser
     - select the function

drap another lamda functions
    - select the onterhr functions


presse next
press next
DmpaDemo
    select using permission

create state machine


now is running


if we click we can see how the details and selectingn map run we cann see the details


mostrar a imagem, we can see the inpit of each temperatude
and return an 



and record to dybanmoDV

see the table the primery the month and the year and the reocrds is the max temperature


In a few minutes we got this result





Fuctopmal ein cwork.


[See all here!](https://youtu.be/SG6_oy72hh4)

----