# AWS re:Invent 2022 | Day 3 - Sunday, Nov. 29

## AWS Jam: Security




----

## Zero Trust security with HashiCorp Vault and AWS (sponsored by HashiCorp)

Cloud security is now an executive-level priority. The question for many has become how to move from traditional security to a Zero Trust approach. Securing systems and data requires a modern framework like shifting from static IP addresses to an identity-first strategy. When every request is authenticated by a trusted identity and every action is authenticated and authorized, you can ensure the right level of access. In this session, learn how to adopt a Zero Trust mindset with HashiCorp and AWS. See how to explicitly authenticate the identity of humans, applications, and network services with HashiCorp Vault, Consul, and Boundary. This presentation is brought to you by HashiCorp, an AWS Partner.


- Consul https://www.consul.io/)

- service splitter using Consul to send half of the traffic to the new verison and the other 


- Security 




consul, easy configuration


Comcast's https://corporate.comcast.com/ use case

what is something that failed in one reagion, consult does the work for you to trigger the traffic to another region

you can do everying using the UI of Consul



Hashicorp example



Vault



service mesh features
- security


Observablity
- Prometheus
- Grafana
 
 All the metrics from diferents datacenter in the same place


 Traffic control



----

## Reinvent how you derive value from your data with Amazon QuickSight


learn how you can use AWS native business analytics to provide your users with machine learning–powered interactive dashboards, natural language query (NLQ), and embedded analytics to provide insights to users at scale, when and where they need it.

Talked about Bi along the year and has been this evolution.

Every users has his needs and they want to use this dashboards 

Any organization has his own personas so there different approach form them.


The architecture is the key section to make everything envolve


But for that we need to have "superpowers"



Amazon quickSight
- Build this kind of experiences faster and cheeper


Legacy approche has any product
QuickSight has everthing toguether and you pay what do you use.

Easy to manage

100.000 customer are growing fast just using it.

talked about the new features in 2022. A lot work is being doing. to get more and more user from our organization to use the tool for any need.

Journey to data-driven

WWSO https://www.amazon.jobs/en/landing_pages/AWS-Worldwide-Specialist-Organization user case

over the years the more and more user have been using quicksig to have some reports and dashboards

explain how to migrate to start using this with value


driving from data to outcomes
- Standalized data to track data to 


----

## How Fidelity Investments and Reltio modernized with Amazon DynamoDB

When two industry leaders started their application modernization journey, both chose Amazon DynamoDB. 


In this session, learn how their journeys were unique and how they embraced Amazon DynamoDB as their non-relational, serverless database solution. 

Learn how Fidelity modernized their live trade execution and order routing workload from Oracle to DynamoDB, and increased resiliency through a multi-Region architecture with global tables. 

Discover how Reltio, a cloud-native real-time master data management SaaS company, adopted Amazon DynamoDB to meet growth demands for a subset of their microservices, followed by the migration of all relevant workloads from Apache Cassandra.





The first slide was a slap in the face!

More time spend in maintenance than inovation


there is a huge impact in the organization if we take time to inovate a get into the market if we are stuck in try to maintain ours application.

All of us buy something fast we are expecting to get an quick response in what we do and if we need to reponse and reduce our latency 


On AWS Everything was working with relation Database there is some impact when we want to scale up our application that why Dynamo came up.

DynamoDB is NoSQL 


Migration amazon's consumer business
7500 databases migrated


Modern application architecture

- Think what kind of data is suppose to use how much latency and see what ou need to aply

Use case Fidelity Investments

Mainframe to cloud becuase they had to work in multi-regions, multi-availability zone, have to keep the latencies low and scale up/down to meet market conditions. It was not possible with promises and using sql so they start using DynamoDB and the response was amazing for the business.

Architecture -> mostrar a imagem


Fidelity Order Management Systems (OMS) https://www.fidelity.com/

Fidelity was able to accomplish: - ver da image

Was funny to hear that before we they had a problem with the system every body stop PM, DEV, DEVops and they into a call to figure ou the issue and those calls taking hours to figure out the issue! With DynamoDB is has been reduced!

Something some queries are complex and work pretty well in SQL

Lessons Learned - mosrat imagem


Reltio - https://www.reltio.com/

They were using NoSQL but moving to DynamoDB was very good


----

## Optimizing price performance with feature management and observability (sponsored by LaunchDarkly)

The session started to talk about Feature Flags and how can we use them to deploy code to production without any impact.

So using LaunchDarkly -> ver a imagem

Why is observability 


Seating status: Reserved- When AWS launched AWS Graviton2–based instances on Amazon EC2 and AWS Lambda functions in 2021, Honeycomb used progressive delivery techniques and observability to confidently migrate its workloads away from x86-64 architectures to Arm64-based instances on Amazon EC2. The result? For a lower cost and with 30 percent fewer instances (meaning less environmental impact), Honeycomb was able to expand workload usage by 10 times and reduce latency by 30 percent: a win-win for Honeycomb and their customers. This session covers migration techniques that combine observability with Honeycomb and feature management with LaunchDarkly to progressively deliver a faster and less costly application architecture on a live production workload. This presentation is brought to you by LaunchDarkly, an AWS Partner.




----

