# AWS re:Invent 2022 | Day 4 - Sunday, Nov. 30


## Breakfast at Venetian

Every time that I came to this hotel I dicovery news things. 

Today I came here for the breakfast and I found a eating zone bigger than MGM.
MGM for me was huge, now that I am in Venetian I am feeling lost. I think is 2 soccer fields or more and I am not jooking.

Finishing my breakfast was time to walk into the workshop in this hotel and I discovery another big place in Venetian! Meeting rooms over 3 level..

One of the biggest chalenges in Venetian is to walk until our meeting room.

----

## Deep learning with Amazon SageMaker, AWS Trainium, and AWS Inferentia

With Amazon SageMaker we can build, train, and deploy machine learning models for almost any use case. 



Amazon EC2 Trn1 instances, powered by AWS Trainium, and EC2 Inf1 instances, powered by AWS Inferentia, deliver the best price performance for deep learning training and inference. In this workshop, walk through training a BERT model for natural language processing on Trn1 instances to save up to 50 percent in training costs over equivalent GPU-based EC2 instances. Also learn how to deploy this model for inference on Inf1 instances for up to 2.3x higher throughput and up to 70 percent lower cost per inference than comparable GPU-based EC2 instances. You must bring your laptop to participate.

Sagemaker https://aws.amazon.com/pm/sagemaker/


Amazon SageMaker Studio -> ver da imagem


Train ML models - img
Deply ML models - img



Thera are two Amazon instances that are acedidos by Sagamaker
that has training chips - both instances are used to work with our module.

Training model is no longer single node there is a distributed systems.


AWS trainium ship - mostrar imagem


Workshop

clone the project into sagemaker ide
https://github.com/aws-samples/sagemaker-trainium-inferentia


In this workshop we followed a script inside of Safemaker Studio on AWS. just press shit+enter for each line.

imagem

We walked through fine-tuning a BERT model for natural language processing on Trn1 instances to save up to 50 percent in training costs over equivalent GPU-based EC2 instances. Also, we deployed this model for inference on Inf1 instances for up to 2.3x higher throughput and up to 70 percent lower cost per inference. Pretty Amazing.. 



----

## Kubernetes and cloud-native data management with Kasten by Veeam (sponsored by Veeam)

The target of this session was for Operation People but was fun to learn a little bit about the infrastructure using Kasten K10 on Kubernetes (Kasten by Veem - https://www.kasten.io/).

The growing popularity of Kubernetes necessitates reliable, cloud-native backup and recovery for Kubernetes workloads across diverse architectures to protect data and applications. 

Kasten K10 is in the AWS marketplace and enables seamless backup and disaster recovery on Amazon EKS, EKS Distro, and Kubernetes distributions such as Red Hat OpenShift on AWS (ROSA).

So they shows us a Demo how to deploy the application using kubernetes and 
Helm chart - https://helm.sh/.


Architecture -> mostrar a imagem


Has been made a Demo to show how to deploy the application using kubernetes and helm chart with the secret encrypted in AWS.

Kasten has a pretty good UI that you can see all information that you need including the scalability with multi-cluster dashboards.

They also demonstrated the workload migration and database integrations providing insights into cloud-native data protection using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and Object Lock in Amazon S3. 

If we are using kubernetes it can be a good tool to apply some security easly.
----

## Developers do care about security: Building a more collaborative path (sponsored by Trend Micro)

https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/business.html

The session started to explain that can often be challenging and time-consuming to deliver a modern application that meets security and compliance requirements. 

Developers may be invested in security but many don’t have the knowledge or capacity to be experts.


 to talk about what a developer need to worry when is developing and some times the security is not taken with much importance as it should be.


And as Developer we should worry about customer require not everything.

What can we do predeployment?
-> mostrar a imagem 

we need to work together as a team with everybody envolve. Talk with each other. 


DevOps and cognitive capacity
- change the way we devolpe and the role is too much to take care.

- Create good env for the developer so they do what they should do.


Understanding your services
- operation review - check your metrics and operation condintions about your service see what is doing and how is running.

- Things happen in production that we are not expecting to do so is important to see what is going on regulary.


So we use AWS Well-Architected Tool
-> mostrar a imagem

AWS Serverless Application Lens


Custom lenses


How do you manage your AWS accounts

Useful tool - finding common ground
- mostrar a foto








When security teams ask developers to deploy an agent, developer teams may question the value of it, causing friction between the teams. 

In this session, learn from a developer about how developers and security teams at Trend Micro work together to meet security requirements while building a better design pattern to meet the needs of both teams. 


----

## Developers do care about security: Building a more collaborative path (sponsored by Trend Micro)

Explore how Black Knight, a premier mortgage analytics company, is adopting AWS artificial intelligence (AI) services for its data and domains to process documents at scale. Learn how they use Amazon Textract to reduce manual processes, mitigate regulatory risks, and deliver significant cost savings to their clients, including many of the largest US lenders. The mortgage processing industry is complex due to the loan lifecycle, regulatory requirements, and the sophisticated data and analytics required to support each process. Hear how Black Knight uses AWS AI services to help clients improve and scale their business processes with automation and a complete solutions ecosystem that supports the entire real estate and mortgage lifecycle.


----

## The architect elevator: Connecting the boardroom and IT

We upgrade our technology all the time—isn’t it time to update the role of architects? Today’s successful leaders forge a tight connection between an organization’s strategy, its technology choices, and its operational capabilities. The IT engine room, although equipped with amazing capabilities, can be daunting. That’s why modern architects add value by connecting IT and the boardroom by building executive awareness, clearly communicating technical trade-offs, and facilitating better decision-making. This session redefines the role of the architect for the modern enterprise and teaches technology leaders and architects how they can form a fruitful alliance across the levels of their organization.

----